initial pass - (re)move subsections in impl guidance sec (#509)
quicwg/multipath: draft-ietf-quic-multipath.md

# Implementation Considerations {#impl-consideration}

> 

Author: ```suggestion

This section provides informational guidance for implementors.
```

# Implementation Considerations {#impl-consideration}

> This section provides informational guidance for implementors.

Author: ```suggestion
This section provides informational guidance for implementors.

```

# Implementation Considerations {#impl-consideration}

This section provides informational guidance for implementors.

## CID Changes, Migration, and NAT Rebindings {#migration}

With the multipath extension, each
path uses a separate packet number space.
This is a major difference from
{{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}, which only defines three number spaces (Initial,
Handshake and Application packets).

The relation between packet number spaces and paths is fixed.
Connection IDs are separately allocated for each Path ID.
Rotating the connection ID on a path does not change the Path ID
nor the packet number space.

While endpoints assign a connection ID to a specific sending 4-tuple,
networks events such as NAT rebinding may make the packet's receiver

> observe a different 4-tuple. Though it changes the 4-tuple of the path,

Author: ```suggestion
observe a different 4-tuple. This changes the 4-tuple of the path but
```

> also does not change connection ID and as such also not the path identifier.

Reviewer: This sentence is hard to parse, but I think that I understand the underlying meaning

```suggestion
the connection ID remains the same, and so the related path identifier.
```

Servers observing a 4-tuple change will
perform path validation (see {{Section 9 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}).
If path validation process succeeds, the endpoints set
the path's congestion controller and round-trip time
estimator according to {{Section 9.4 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}.

{{Section 9.3 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} allows an endpoint to skip validation of
a peer address if that address has been seen recently. However, when the
multipath extension is used and an endpoint has multiple addresses that
could lead to switching between different paths, it should rather maintain
multiple open paths instead.

> 

Author: This PR is a bit messy as I removed most of the section on "Number Spaces" (as we do need an explicitly section in implementation guidance anymore as this is full integrated in the main spec) and then moved up the section on "Connection ID Changes" and "Migration and NAT Rebindings" (see below for the removed parts) and merged them together with the remaining parts of the "Number Spaces section. These three paragraphs I only copied over from below and did not change. Note I also did not write any new text.

I agree that this need some clean up but I wanted to do the merging first. Would it be okay with you @huitema if I merge this PR now as it is and then start a separate PR with you proposed text on this section below?

More generally, while migration cannot be avoided in case of network-based
NAT rebindings, opening a new path instead of active client migration
should be strongly preferred when the multipath extension is supported.
This enables a smoother handover and allows a simplified migration

> handling at the server as NAT rebindings imply immediate loss of the old

Reviewer: ```suggestion
handling at the server side as NAT rebindings imply immediate loss of the old
```

address.

> 

Reviewer 2: OK, now I kind of understand what you wanted to say before. But we end up with a mix of considerations for NAT
rebinding and path migration. That section is a bit weird, because it is unclear whether it applies to the initiator of the migration or to the peer. If we want to prevent guidance, we could say:

For any given path, we may expect to observe the Connection ID rotation, NAT Rebinding and Migration
as specified by RFC 9000, although happening in a single path. These events do not change the path ID,
and do not affect the packet number space associated with the path. As a general rule, implementations
should strongly prefer using multipath mechanisms such as creating a new path to the path migration
mechanisms of RFC 9000. This enables a smoother handover and allows a simplified migration
handling at the server side as NAT rebindings imply immediate loss of the old
address. However, if the server requests migration to a "preferred address", clients must initiate an
RFC9000-style migration of path 0 to that preferred address.

Rotating the connection ID on a path does not change the Path ID
nor the packet number space.

While endpoints assign a connection ID to a specific sending 4-tuple,
networks events such as NAT rebinding may make the packet's receiver
observe a different 4-tuple. Though it changes the 4-tuple of the path,
the connection ID remains the same, and so the related path identifier.

Servers observing a 4-tuple change will
perform path validation (see {{Section 9 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}).
If path validation process succeeds, the endpoints set
the path's congestion controller and round-trip time
estimator according to {{Section 9.4 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}.

## Using multiple paths on the same 4-tuple

It is possible to create paths that
refer to the same 4-tuple. For example, the endpoints may want
to create paths that use different Differentiated Service {{?RFC2475}} markings.
This could be done in conjunction with scheduling algorithms
that match streams to paths, so that for example data frames for
low priority streams are sent over low priority paths.
Since these paths use different path IDs, they can be managed
independently to suit the needs of the application.

There may be cases in which paths are created with different 4-tuples,
but end up using the same 4-tuples as a consequence of path
migrations. For example:

* Client starts path 1 from address 192.0.2.1 to server address 198.51.100.1
* Client starts path 2 from address 192.0.2.2 to server address 198.51.100.1

> * both paths are used for a while.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Both paths are used for a while.
```

* Server sends packet from address 198.51.100.1 to client address 192.0.2.1, with CID indicating path=2.

> * Client receives packet, recognizes a path migration, update source address of path 2 to 192.0.2.1.

Reviewer: While I agree with the provided example, it implicitly makes the assumption that both paths use the same source and destination ports; otherwise, it would not lead to the same 4-tuple.

Author: Yes, should we add that or is it okay to just not say it explicitly?

Reviewer: I would say, rather be explicit than implicit. This is not blocking though.

Such unintentional use of the same 4-tuple on different paths ought to
be rare. When they happen, the two paths would be redundant, and the

> endpoint will want to close one of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
endpoint may want to close one of them.
```

Author: I also was close to change this but if I remember correctly I think when we created this text we wanted to use anything close to normative language here. But I agree it does not read well.

Reviewer: In that case, why not "could" instead of "may"?

immediately be adapted to Multipath QUIC. Other coupled congestion
control schemes have been proposed for Multipath TCP such as {{OLIA}}.

{{Section 5.1.2 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} indicates that an endpoint
can change the connection ID it uses to another available one

> at any time during the connection. As such a sole change of the Connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at any time during the connection. As such, a sole change of the Connection
```
